README.md, before:

# DSND_Projects

This is a repo that will be used for the projects required from them [Udacity Nano Degree in Data Science](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025?utm_source=gsem_brand&utm_medium=ads_n&utm_campaign=8301633066_c&utm_term=85414326876&utm_keyword=udacity%20data%20science%20nanodegree_e&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIqq6P6Nug6wIVSOztCh3AvQGCEAAYAiAAEgJeifD_BwE).


## Project 1 - Write a blog

## The Blog Post
The blog post can be found [here](https://lunkwillandfook.dev/2020/08/17/are-you-in-sales-or-hr-chances-are-you-might-be-leaving-your-job/). 

### Motivation behind the project
The motivation behind this was to demonstrate the [CRISP Data modelling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-industry_standard_process_for_data_mining) process covered in the course. There are 3 notebook in the directory the repo does not cover stage 1 understanding the business problem, this will be covered in the commentary on the blog post. The notebooks will cover the topics of:

* Understand the data
* Clean the data
* Model the data

The output of the model will be used to then convey the message to stakeholders via a blog post.

### Libraries used

* numpy
* padas
* matplotlib
* scikit-learn
* seaborn

### Files in the repo
The project was completely done in jupyter notebooks and you will probably need to have it running, unless there is something clever out there I don't know about - this is entirely possible.

* IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition.csv
* IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition_removed_data.csv
* 1_Understand_The_Data.ipynb
* 2_Data_Cleansing.ipynb
* 3_Build_the_Model.ipynb

#### IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition & IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition_removed_data
I obtained the IBM HR data through [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/pavansubhasht/ibm-hr-analytics-attrition-dataset).
The quality of the data set is great and should be as it seems to have been generated by IBM. This did pose a challenge in the section where data cleaning is required. I copied the data set to the IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition_removed_data file and removed some data, randomly.

#### 1_Understand_The_Data.ipynb
This file looks simplistically at the data using pandas data-frames to get a general sense of the set.

#### 2_Data_Cleansing.ipynb
Here I tackle the problem of missing values in the data set to prep the data for the model. At each stage of clean up you will find a `df.isnull().sum()` line that will show the cleaning progress made.

#### 3_Build_the_Model.ipynb
The model is the meat and potatoes of the project where I cover a few steps to building the model. There is still some further cleanup here as there are columns that added very little value:
* StandardHours
* EmployeeCount
As well as dealing with the categorical values in the dataset.

The model creates some histograms of the data frame some are useful some aren't. There is also a seaborn heat map included to show some correlations between dimensions.


The first project's jupyter notebooks can be found in the Project 1 folder.

Commit message:

updated technicalities on the README page

README.md, after:

# DSND_Projects

This is a repo that will be used for the projects required from them [Udacity Nano Degree in Data Science](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-scientist-nanodegree--nd025?utm_source=gsem_brand&utm_medium=ads_n&utm_campaign=8301633066_c&utm_term=85414326876&utm_keyword=udacity%20data%20science%20nanodegree_e&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIqq6P6Nug6wIVSOztCh3AvQGCEAAYAiAAEgJeifD_BwE).


## Project 1 - Write a blog

### The Blog Post
The blog post can be found [here](https://lunkwillandfook.dev/2020/08/17/are-you-in-sales-or-hr-chances-are-you-might-be-leaving-your-job/).

### Motivation behind the project
The motivation behind this was to demonstrate the [CRISP Data modelling](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-industry_standard_process_for_data_mining) process covered in the course. There are 3 notebook in the directory the repo does not cover stage 1 understanding the business problem, this will be covered in the commentary on the blog post. The notebooks will cover the topics of:

* Understand the data
* Clean the data
* Model the data

The output of the model will be used to then convey the message to stakeholders via a blog post.

### Libraries used

* numpy
* padas
* matplotlib
* scikit-learn
* seaborn

### Files in the repo
The project was completely done in jupyter notebooks and you will probably need to have it running, unless there is something clever out there I don't know about - this is entirely possible.

* IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition.csv
* IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition_removed_data.csv
* 1_Understand_The_Data.ipynb
* 2_Data_Cleansing.ipynb
* 3_Build_the_Model.ipynb

#### IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition & IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition_removed_data
I obtained the IBM HR data through [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/pavansubhasht/ibm-hr-analytics-attrition-dataset).
The quality of the data set is great and should be as it seems to have been generated by IBM. This did pose a challenge in the section where data cleaning is required. I copied the data set to the IBM_HR_Employee_Attrition_removed_data file and removed some data, randomly.

#### 1_Understand_The_Data.ipynb
This file looks simplistically at the data using pandas data-frames to get a general sense of the set.

#### 2_Data_Cleansing.ipynb
Here I tackle the problem of missing values in the data set to prep the data for the model. At each stage of clean up you will find a `df.isnull().sum()` line that will show the cleaning progress made.

#### 3_Build_the_Model.ipynb
The model is the meat and potatoes of the project where I cover a few steps to building the model. There is still some further cleanup here as there are columns that added very little value:
* StandardHours
* EmployeeCount
As well as dealing with the categorical values in the dataset.

The model creates some histograms of the data frame some are useful some aren't. There is also a seaborn heat map included to show some correlations between dimensions.

The first project's jupyter notebooks can be found in the Project 1 folder.

### Technicalities
There are a few points to note on the data set.

* The data set is fictional
* The data set is clean
* The data set feels on the small side
* There are a few biases in the data
  - It's weighted towards the male gender
  - It has a strong representation from the R & D department
